---
title: "Enhancing Vehicular Edge Intelligence through Distributed Collaborative Generative AI Inference"
collection: 2024 IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC)
excerpt: 'Gaochang Xie, Renchao Xie, Xinyuan Zhang, Jiangtian Nie, Qinqin Tang, **Qian Chen**, and Dusit Niyato'
date: 2024-6-9
venue: 'IEEE International Conference on Communications'
paperurl: 'https://icc2024.ieee-icc.org/; Coming soon'
---
**Abstract:** In recent years, there has been a proliferation of Edge Intelligence (EI) services, especially within Internet of Vehicles (IoV) scenarios, accompanied by a growing demand for multi-modal content generation. In response, Generative Artificial Intelligence (GAI) has emerged as a promising solution, equipping EI to produce diverse Artificial Intelligence-Generated Content (AIGC) for ubiquitous edge services. However, existing cloud-based GAI capabilities, which are mostly provided via the web and the Internet, introduce unacceptable latency overhead and heightened security risks for vehicular services. To address the above shortcomings and the lack of endogenous mechanisms for applying GAI to IoV scenarios, in this paper, we propose a layered vehicular GAI framework that seamlessly integrates GAI and EI. Within this framework, we devise a distributed collaborative inference mechanism between Road-Side Units (RSUs) and vehicles. Furthermore, we formulate the shared and local inference splitting problem, a pivotal challenge influencing both GAI service latency and content-generation capability. To tackle this issue, we introduce a backward induction-based algorithm, which enables the system can make splitting decisions using a simple threshold-based policy. Simulation results underscore the remarkable performance of the proposed system and vehicular collaborative inference mechanism, promising to facilitate diverse content generation within vehicular networks.
